>> Brian Holt: We're
gonna talk about Preact.
I'm a big Preact fan, so
I get really excited about it.
Preact is a extremely intelligent person
named Jason Miller, decided I can do
React, but instead of taking 45 kilobytes,
which is what it was at the time.
I can do it in three, and actually at
the time, he did it in less than three.
It's black magic.
It's pure magician craziness.
At the time Jason wasn't
working at Google,
but Google obviously hired
him because why not.
We tried at Microsoft.
At least I tried.
He told me-
>> Speaker 2: Is that why you almost said
stole him?
>> Brian Holt: I wanted to steal him.
But nonetheless, extremely nice guy.
The Preact project is amazing.
I'm sure every company in the valley
tried to hire him as well.
[COUGH] So what's cool about Preact,
Preact does differ
a little bit from React.
They made some different design choices.
Largely, it's the same.
It still uses JSX, it's still
components and life cycle methods.
Today, even though we haven't
really talked about Preact,
you pretty much know 95% of how write for
Preact, it's mostly the same.
However, if you have an existing
large React application,
they ship something called preact-compact.
That actually is a drop-in replacement for
React.
So it will make your entire React
application work with Preact.
So you can go from having,
I think React now has 30,
32 kilobytes' worth of code,
to down to 3, today.
Even though, well,
I guess that it would be about eight,
because Preact compacts
about five kilobytes.
So the three kilobytes in
the original library and
then the five kilobytes
of the compact layer.
So pretty compelling.
It's not always one to one,
react is evolving and so
it takes preact a bit of time to catch up.
So at the moment of this filming,
there's several features that React does
that Preact doesn't quite do, and don't
get there that they're building them.
But a lot of the stuff that I
showed you with Reach Router
doesn't actually work with Preact.
So I'm gonna show you how to swap out
Reach Router for Preact Router, and
it's largely the same thing.
So not a big deal.
So let's get through this pretty quickly.
So you're here in the project,
I'm just gonna reinstall my
Node modules really quick.
You probably shouldn't have to do this,
but
you might.
>> Speaker 3: I have a question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Why isn't everybody using
Preact over React then if it's so
much smaller?
>> Brian Holt: It's a tradeoff.
So in general, and
I'm making generalizations,
this is not gonna necessarily always be
true, the runtime of React is faster.
So once I've downloaded it,
React tends to run faster.
That's not true in every
performance profile.
Some places it's negligible and
some places Preact is gonna be faster.
The big thing that React
does that Preact doesn't do,
React has a synthetic DOM event system.
So it's actually simulating
events inside of itself and
running events through its own process
rather than letting the browser do it.
And a big size win for [INAUDIBLE]
because it uses the dom the ben system so
it doesn't have to ship it's
own copy of [INAUDIBLE] system.
That's one of the bigger differences of
the architectures.
>> Brian Holt: Beyond that
react is supported by Facebook and has
a core team of people working on react all
the time and there's just a certain
amount of trust that comes with that.
Facebook's not gonna
break their own stuff.
Google as of this moment
in time employs Jason but
Jason doesn't work on Preact for
his day job.
His day job, he works on Chrome.
A guy working on it and
whatever contributors or
an entire team at Facebook working on it.
One's an easier sell internally,
I assure you.
[LAUGH] So reasons, I think is my answer
to your question, there are reasons.
I don't know.
Yes, for some things,
react is gonna be a little bit better, and
with the new fiber architecture,
there's really cool stuff coming,
that preact is gonna have
a hard time simulating.
So I think as we go
further into the future,
they're gonna diverged more cuz they're
making different design choices.
Does that not answer your question?
[LAUGH] Cool.
So I want you to npm uninstall or npm un,
if you're lazy like me,
react react-dom and
@reach/router.
>> Brian Holt: This
is gonna uninstall those packages because
we're going to install NPM installer
and NPMI.
Preact, preact dash compat,
preact dash context because right
now preact does not have context.
But there is a little library called
preact context that does it for us, and
then preact-router.
>> Brian Holt: A caution
to future video listeners,
by the time that you watch this
video preact context may be built
into preact or preact compact.
They're going to include that in there.
But as of today's writing,
this is a separate library.
So you might want to just check that out.
And I'm sure we will add an annotation
that says this is or not, or it is or
is not.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so we're gonna come over
to your editor right now.
There's a couple ways you can do this.
You can go in an alias anytime
that using a parcel or
web app to say that anytime I request
a react give me preact compat instead.
Right now I'm just going to
do a giant find and replace.
I think that's going to be
the easiest way for me to do it.
Any time I ask for React replace that with
preact compat so let's see what that does
and,
>> Brian Holt: I need
to do that inside of anything
that's a js file Files to include,
anything that's a JS file.
So this is gonna go in and
do a find and replace.
Do find and replace in your favorite
way possible, or that you know how to.
I'm doing it with VScode here, so I just
clicked on the magnifying glass here.
And I'm doing a find and replace here so,
you need to search for, in quotes React.
And replace that with preax compat.
Very key here, to put the quotes
because I only want to replace this,
I want to leave React the way it is.
But I want to replace which
package it's coming from
>> Brian Holt: So again,
make sure quotes are there, double quotes.
Cuz we're using pretty and
pretty amazing double quotes, okay?
And I only wanna get there from
asterisk.js.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's find all those files
>> Brian Holt: So there we go.
Cuz you should only be
importing react at the top, so
it should only come from
all of our component files.
Here I'm gonna do replace all.
Okay, and I'm gonna do the same for
react-dom.
So that's just only an app.js and
modal.js, so that's good.
Replace that, okay.
>> Brian Holt: Then anywhere that it says
at reach router at react slash router,
replace that with preact dash router, so
that's an app.js, pet.js and
search params, right?
There's a link or a router, so
we'll replace all of those.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
anywhere there is a link which
will be in search params,
I think, right?
>> Brian Holt: Where is there
a link?
>> Brian Holt: So
in App.js,
>> Brian Holt: What
are you doing here?
>> Brian Holt: There is
a difference between Reach router and
React router.
This says to right here.
So both these times are those too,
just make that an href.
They just had different design choices
there, so that's what that does.
And then we also have to do it in pet.js.
So in pet.js, change this to href.
>> Brian Holt: And search context, so
open Search context,
here we have reacts.create context here.
Reacts doesn't, our pre act
doesn't have create context on it,
so we're gonna have to do here is we're
gonna have to import create context
>> Brian Holt: From pre act -context and
then just change this to
be context like that okay?
Now preact-context will work.
>> Brian Holt: In search params here.
Where I have navigate.
It's actually called route inside of
preact-router so change that to route.
Again, search params.
This was navigate, but we changed this and
this to be net route instead of navigate.
>> Brian Holt: Lastly, in details.js.
>> Brian Holt: For whatever reason,
there's a, you have to wrap this in a div.
>> Brian Holt: Inside of the modal,
so you need to add an extra div here
cuz that didn't work in preact.
So I'm demonstrating
to you there are tiny,
tiny differences here that you
kinda just have to worry about.
But in my opinion,
they're not that big of a deal.
So now, if I come over here and
run dev again.
You might have to remove the cache,
-rf .cache/ and dist/.
These are the generated files from
Parsel So I'm gonna say npm run dev.
It'll take a little bit
longer to start up,
because he killed the cache.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, up and running.
And now it works.
But the cool thing is, now this is running
with Preact, which is pretty cool, right?
Our entire application, we can search.
Cats, American Curl, submit.
Working with a Preact, so just fathom for
a second that you replaced the entire
core library with a different library.
To me that's fascinating.
I think that's really cool.
You couldn't really do that with Angular,
right?
You can't just drop in something else for
Angular, it's Angular, right?
But we were able to save quite
a bit of space by doing that.